---
{"Title":"2017 - How the PI System Enables Edge Computing Virtually Anywhere","Year":2017,"Industry":"Facilities & Data Centers","URL":"https://resources.osisoft.com/presentations/how-the-pi-system-enables-edge-computing-virtually-anywhere/","PDF":"https://cdn.osisoft.com/osi/presentations/2017-uc-san-francisco/UC17NA02II07_Dell_TDuncan_SRobertson_HowthePIEdge.pdf","Company":"DELL EMC","Keywords":["Data Centers"],"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/aveva/customer-stories/2017/2017-dell-emc-how-the-pi-system-enables-edge-computing-virtually-anywhere/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

#### PRESENTATION

## 2017 - Users Conference - San Francisco - Industrial IT

### How the PI System Enables Edge Computing Virtually Anywhere

Please join as we discuss a PoC and Innovation initiative between DELL EMC Extreme Scale Infrastructure (ESI) and OSIsoft that focuses around a unique edge solution, including the DELL EMC micro Modular Data Center and Dell 5100 gateway running a full PI system at the edge. In this presentation we’ll discuss how the huge amounts of data generated by IoT (IDC estimates by 2025 there will be 80 billion IoT connected endpoints) will drive the need for real-time data analysis and edge solutions that can respond faster than clouds or centralized data centers. A result of the demonstration developed jointly will be discussed that highlights the joint work of DELL EMC and OSIsoft. The presentation will highlight several new PI features including: • REDFISH Connector getting data from POD MGR part of the INTEL Rack Scale Architecture. • PI System Connector (soon to be released) • Coresight 2017 R1 (soon to be released) • Full PI system deployed on a DELL 5100 gateway (running Windows 10)

#### Industry

- Facilities & Data Centers

#### Speaker

Tyler Duncan

Mr. Duncan is a Principal Thermal and Controls engineer for Dell EMC Extreme Scalable Infrastructure (ESI), focusing on modular infrastructure solution development. He holds a Bachelor of Science and a Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Missouri and has over 10 years of experience in IT thermal design, data center thermal simulation and cooling, controls/monitoring design, and modular data center design/manufacturing. He has architected, engineered and productized numerous controls and monitoring systems for Dell's modular data centers. He believes strongly in hands-on evaluation and optimization, and spending time at the customer site understanding how the solutions are being used. His thermal, controls and monitoring solutions have been a critical part of over 85MW of modular data center solutions in production, most utilizing 100% outside air cooling while supporting extreme densities and challenging climates. Mr. Duncan has 9 USA patents